RS: Access control doc improvements (#349)
redis/docs: content/operate/rs/security/recommended-security-practices.md

---
Title: Recommended security practices
alwaysopen: false
categories:
- docs
- operate
- rs
description: null
linkTitle: Recommended security practices
hideListLinks: true
weight: 5
aliases:
    - /operate/rs/security/admin-console-security/
---

## Deployment security

When deploying Redis Enterprise Software to production, we recommend the following practices:

- **Deploy Redis Enterprise inside a trusted network**:  Redis Enterprise is database software and should be deployed on a trusted network not accessible to the public internet. Deploying Redis Enterprise in a trusted network reduces the likelihood that someone can obtain unauthorized access to your data or the ability to manage your database configuration.

> - **Implement anti-virus exclusions**: To ensure that anti-virus solutions that scan files or intercept processes to protect memory do not interfere with Redis Enterprise software, customers should ensure that anti-virus exclusions are implemented across all nodes in their Redis Enterprise cluster in a consistent policy. This helps ensure that anti-virus software does not impact the availability of your Redis Enterprise cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Implement anti-virus exclusions**: To ensure that anti-virus solutions that scan files or intercept processes to protect memory do not interfere with Redis Enterprise software, you should ensure that anti-virus exclusions are implemented across all nodes in their Redis Enterprise cluster in a consistent policy. This helps ensure that anti-virus software does not impact the availability of your Redis Enterprise cluster.
```

    If you are replacing your existing antivirus solution or installing/supporting Redis Enterprise, make sure that the below paths are excluded:

    {{< note >}}
For antivirus solutions that intercept processes, binary files may have to be excluded directly depending on the requirements of your anti-virus vendor.
    {{< /note >}}

    | **Path** | **Description** |
    |------------|-----------------|
    | /opt/redislabs | Main installation directory for all Redis Enterprise Software binaries |
    | /opt/redislabs/bin | Binaries for all the utilities for command line access and managements such as "rladmin" or "redis-cli" |
    | /opt/redislabs/config | System configuration files |
    | /opt/redislabs/lib | System library files |
    | /opt/redislabs/sbin | System binaries for tweaking provisioning |

> - **Send logs to a remote logging server**: Redis Enterprise is configured to send logs by default to syslog. To send these logs to a remote logging server you must [configure syslog]({{<relref "/operate/rs/clusters/logging/log-security">}}) based the requirements of the remote logging server vendor. Remote logging helps ensure that the logs are not deleted so that you can rotate the logs so that your server disk does not fill up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Send logs to a remote logging server**: Redis Enterprise is configured to send logs by default to syslog. To send these logs to a remote logging server you must [configure syslog]({{<relref "/operate/rs/clusters/logging/log-security">}}) based the requirements of the remote logging server vendor. Remote logging helps ensure that the logs are not deleted so that you can rotate the logs to prevent your server disk from filling up.
```

> - **Deploy clusters with an odd number of 3 or more nodes**: Redis is an available and partition tolerant database. We recommend that Redis Enterprise be deployed in a cluster of an odd number of 3 or more nodes so that you are able to successfully failover in the event of a failure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Deploy clusters with an odd number of 3 or more nodes**: Redis is an available and partition-tolerant database. We recommend that Redis Enterprise be deployed in a cluster of an odd number of 3 or more nodes so that you are able to successfully failover in the event of a failure.
```

> - **Reboot nodes in a sequence rather that all at once**: Customers will frequently maintain reboot schedules. There are cases, however, where our customers have rebooted too many servers at once, causing a quorum failure and resulting in loss of availability of the database. We recommend that rebooting be done in a phased manner so that quorum is not lost. For example, to maintain quorum in a 3 node cluster, at least 2 nodes must be up at all times. Only one server should be rebooted at any given time to maintain quorum.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Reboot nodes in a sequence rather that all at once**: It is best practice to frequently maintain reboot schedules. If you reboot too many servers at once, it is possible to cause a quorum failure that results in loss of availability of the database. We recommend that rebooting be done in a phased manner so that quorum is not lost. For example, to maintain quorum in a 3 node cluster, at least 2 nodes must be up at all times. Only one server should be rebooted at any given time to maintain quorum.
```

> - **Implement client-side encryption**: Client-side encryption, or the practice of encrypting data within an application before storing it in a database, such as Redis, is the most widely adopted method to achieve encryption in memory. Redis is an in-memory database and stores data in-memory. If you require encryption in memory, better known as encryption in use, then client side encryption may be the right solution for you. Please be aware that when implementing solutions using client-side encryption database functions that need to operate on data — such as simple searching functions, comparisons, and incremental operations — don’t work with client-side encryption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Implement client-side encryption**: Client-side encryption, or the practice of encrypting data within an application before storing it in a database, such as Redis, is the most widely adopted method to achieve encryption in memory. Redis is an in-memory database and stores data in-memory. If you require encryption in memory, better known as encryption in use, then client side encryption may be the right solution for you. Please be aware that database functions that need to operate on data — such as simple searching functions, comparisons, and incremental operations — don’t work with client-side encryption.
```
